# How I've Found Research

- Created Jan 16, 2021

---

- Foreword:

I'm writing this to describe how it is to do research as a master's student, so that it may
inform you whether or not you may enjoy it as well. I don't know how representative my
experience is, as it probably depends a lot on your specific advisor, your lab mates, and the
environment as a whole. If this is the path you choose or have chosen, best of luck my friend.

---

To start off, I came into grad school with the expectation that I would finish off a rejected
paper, mostly by polishing it, both in terms of writing and code. This was one of my primary
reasons for going to grad schoo, it felt like I had unfinished business (which was probably
untrue), and that I felt that after completing it I had sufficient knowledge to make another
contribution (which I still feel is true). The previous submission had not succeeded, in my
belief due to variety of reasons including the paper as a whole being non-cohesive, the results
looking shitty, and that I hadn't given enough results to properly convince a reader that what I
had done worked. These were all issues of _time_, more specifically lack of it, which manifested
itself as shitty work. I've come to realize that a lot of *engineering* work goes into research
papers which I did not realize before. That brings me to how I feel doing research in my
specific academic setting.

For me specifically, I've been working on neural rendering, which is very distinct from what
anyone else was working on in my group, as they mostly work on optics and differentiable
imaging with actual lenses and that sorta thing. For me, this meant I was pretty much the only
one working on my projects. While there are certainly mental health issues in grad school and
working in solitude, to me that wasn't the primary issue. It was simply that there was so much
shit to do for a paper. Figures, tables, code, running more experiments, so many hoops to jump
through to show that something works. This was a pain for me, since it was just lil' ol me
working on the code. At the start of this year, another grad student joined the project to work
on it, and that was a lifesaver. It's extremely difficult as a single individual, to be able to
produce the amount of crap necessary that makes a paper look ok, and that's just on the code
side with running experiments. I got help from a postdoc, and editing from him and my advisor,
but still the amount of work is insane. I decided not to push for another paper deadline after
that, since the pain of crunching for papers is difficult. I did decide to continue work on
other projects on my own time, as I do think it is very feasible to produce something, but it
feels like my life is burning away if I have to rush to finish for a deadline.

That being said, I was actually very happy with the quality of work produced after revision. I
think I made more than I thought I would, even though it feels like a relatively small
contribution. That in itself was rewarding in a way, but is hard to quantify.

---

## Pain Points:

I also want to point a few other pain points that I've identified while doing work.

- Some shit impossible for just me:

When I read research papers from NVIDIA, Berkeley, Google, etc, and they have a list of 8+
authors, and I check their code, I realize it's pretty difficult for me to create something on
that level of quality just because I only have 2 hands, and it's difficult to find
collaborators. I think none of the ideas I've read about have been that crazy, but just the
sheer amount of work that goes into it is not really feasible for just me. In an academic
setting, it's not like additional people can just be conjured to work on projects like at
companies which can hire at will, especially for niche fields. This is one reason I feel that
industry research may be more productive.

- GPUs & $:

For neural rendering, all papers will use a V100 GPU for their work. For me, I don't personally
own a GPU of that quality, so I use my own GPU at home, and I rely on that for prototyping.
SSH-ing into a shared cluster is a pain, and it's difficult since I need to rely on getting a
GPU to work on things. If I had my own dedicated resources, I think I could work more
efficiently. That being said, I haven't thoroughly explored alternatives such as colab, so this
is my own fault, but it feels like a pain to have to figure out how to use these other platforms
for research, when my own tools are lacking.










