# Writing ss a Tool for Effective Asynchronous Teaching

---

I've felt that the teaching at my university did not inspire students as much as some other
universities, such as MIT or CMU, and I've asked myself, "why are we so bad"? As you can tell, I
don't hold my university in the highest regard. I've attributed this to the "on-rails" nature of
the teaching, where the classes are linear and lend themselves to shutting off the brain and
becoming a code monkey. In all the introductory level classes, problems are completely
specified, and all that needs to be done is to slam the keyboard how they tell you to, checking
that your output matches some of their tests. Of course, the instructions were not always clear,
so there's additional time parsing what is meant and debugging. My main perspective on this was
rage against most of the students, thinking that they were lazy and uninspired to work on
interesting problems, which of course may be some part true. Recently though, I had a change of
heart, thinking more about how the classes are taught may uninspire the students.

Even prior to the pandemic, there has been a heavy reliance on videos for teaching the introducy
classes. The legendary `Sedgewick` is known amongst all students who take the first few courses
for his recorded videos which have been in use for the past forever. Of course, these do not
supplant real lecture, but they are one of the primary ways students are expected to learn.
But are they effective as a teaching tool? I mean I guess? My own use was just reading slides,
because I could find what I needed much more effectively. In a video, I could not easily find
where discussion of an algorithm begins or ends, and I had no idea where the information was
coming from, so I couldn't get more information about it. With written notes, it fills in this
gap, and also allows for the inclusion of less formal info hubs such as blogs, one of my main
sources of knowledge about all sorts of fringe concepts and real implementation details which
often are glossed over. MIT and Stanford both have notes written in a shorthand, so they can be
easily glossed thru, browsed, or revised. Maybe I don't know what I'm talking about since I
never engaged with these classes directly, but I think having a very informal medium to discuss
ideas is key to allowing for people to easily become curious. Lectures, videos, and papers all
have people with sticks up their butt, so creating an environment where it's fine to be wrong,
it's fine to write informally, and there are people who can answer questions seems like it would
lower the barrier to effective teaching.

Of course, writing and videos do not need to be exclusive. My main concerns is that after the
introductory courses, there is little engagement between the class and professor, and it's
partially due to the formal nature of classes. Writing casually can be a good way to break this
barrier, and I think it should be experimented with to see if it can drive up interest. Of
course, it is a team effort from both students and teacher, but in that sort of power dynamic
it is best to have it such that a student need not be especially go-getter to get the most out
of a class. Writing, I think, would help.
